8)  string7 - 1234567
1)  string0 -
14) string8 - 1234567890123
5)  string4 - 1234
2)  string1 - 1
13) string8 - 123456789012
3)  string2 - 12
15) string8 - 12345678901234
6)  string5 - 12345
4)  string3 - 123
10) string9 - 123456789
7)  string6 - 123456
12) string8 - 12345678901
9)  string8 - 12345678
11) string8 - 1234567890
Anyone who reads Old and Middle English literary te
xts will be familiar with the mid-brown volumes of the EETS, with the symbol of Alfred's jewel embos
sed on the front cover. Most of the works attributed to King Alfred or to Aelfric, along with some of those by bishop Wulfstan and much anony
mous prose and verse from the pre-Conquest period, are to be found within the Society's three series; all of the surviving medieval drama, most of the Middle En
glish romances, much religious and secular prose and verse including the English works of John Gower, Thomas Hoccleve an
d most of Caxton's prints all find their place in the publications. Without EETS editions, study of medieval English texts would hardly be possible.
As its name states, EETS was begun as a 'club', and it retains certain features of that even now. It has no physical location, or even office, no paid staff or edit
ors, but books in the Original Series are published in the first place to satisfy subscriptions paid by individuals or institutions. This means that there is need for 
a regular sequence of new editions, normally one or two per year; achieving that sequence can pose problems for the Editorial Secretary, who may hav
e too few or too m
any texts ready for public
ation at any one time. Details on a separate sheet explain how individ
ual (but not institutional) members can choose to take certain back volumes in p
lace of the newly published volumes against their subscriptions. On the same sheet ar
e given details about the very advantageous discount available to indiv
idual members on all back numbers. In 1970 a Supplementary Series was begun, a series which only appears occasio
nally (it currently has 24 volumes within it); some of these are new editions of texts earlier appearing in the main series. Again the
se volumes are available at publication and later at a substantial discount to members. All these advantages can only be obtained through the Membe
rship Secretary (the books are sent by post); they are not available through bookshops, and such bookstores as carry EETS books have only a very limited selection o
f the many published.
Editors, who receive no royalties or expenses and who are only very rarely commissioned by the Society, are enco
uraged to approach the Editorial Secretary with a detailed proposal of the text they wish to suggest to the Society 
early in their work; interest may be expressed at that point, but before any text is accepted for publication the final typescript m
ust be approved by the Council (a body of some twenty scholars), and then assigned a place in the print
ing schedule. The Society now has a stylesheet to guide editors in the layout and conventions acceptable wi
thin its series. No prescriptive set of editorial principles is laid down, but it is usually expected that the evidence o
f all relevant medieval copies of the text(s) in question will have been considered, and that the texts edited will be complete what
ever their length. Editions are directed at a scholarly readership rather than a popular one; though they normally provide a glossary and notes, no trans
lation is provided.
EETS was founded in 1864 by Frederick James Furnivall, with the help of Richard Morris, Walter Skeat, and others, to b
ring the mass of unprinted Early English literature within the reach of students. It was also intended to provide accura
te texts from which the New (later Oxford) English Dictionary could quote; the ongoing work on the revision of that Diction
ary is still heavily dependent on the Society's editions, as are the Middle English Dictionary and the Toronto Dictionary of Old English. In 1867 an Extra Seri
es was started, intended to contain texts already printed but not in satisfactory or readily obtainable editions; this series was discontinued in 19
21, and from then on all the Society's editions, apart from the handful in the Supplementary Series described above, were listed and numbered as part of the Origi
nal Series. In all the Society has now published some 475 volumes; all except for a very small number (mostly of editions superseded within the series) are ava
ilable in print. The early history of the Society is only traceable in outline: no details about ninete
enth-century membership are available, and the secretarial records of the early twentieth century were largely lost du
ring the second world war. By the 1950s a very large number of the Society's editions were out of print, and finances allowed for only a v
ery limited reprinting programme. Around 1970 an adva
ntageous arrang
ement was agreed wi
th an American reprint fi
rm to make almost all the volumes avai
lable once more whilst maintaining the membership disco
unts. Though this arrangement was superseded towards the end of the twentieth century and the cost of reprinting has reve
rted to the Society, as a result of the effort then it has proved possible to keep the bulk of the list in print.
Many comparable societies, with different areas of interest, were founded in the nineteenth century (several of them also by Furni
vall); not all have survived, and few have produced as many valuable volumes as EETS. The Society's succ
ess continues to depend very heavily on the loyalty of members, and especially on the energy and devotion of a series of scholars who h
ave been involved with the administration of the Society - the amount of time a
nd effort spent by those who over the years have filled the role of Editorial Secretary is imm
easurable. Plans for publications for the coming years are well in hand: there are a number of impo
rtant texts which should be published within the next five years. At present, notably because of the eff
orts of a series of Executive and Membership Secretaries, the Society's finances are in reasonable shape; but certain tre
nds give concern to the Council. The Society's continuance is dependent on two factors: the first is obviously the supply of sc
holarly editions sui
table to be included in its ser
ies; the second is on the maintenance of subsc
riptions and sales of volumes at a level which will cover t
he printing and distribution costs of the new and reprinted books. The n
ormal copyright laws cover the Society's volumes. All enqu
iries about large scale repr
oduction, whether by photocopying or on the internet, should be directed to the Executive Secr
etary in the first instance. The Society's continued usefulness depe
nds on its edit
ors and on its ability to maintain its (re)printing pro
gramme - and that depends on those who traditionally have become membe
rs of the Society. We hope you will maintain your membe
rship, and will encourage both the libraries you use and also other individuals to join. Membership conveys many ben
efits for you, and for the wider academic community concerned for the understanding of medieval texts.